okay so in the previous segment we
talked about question answering systems
in general in the new segment I wanted
to talk about the evaluation of question
answering systems how do we figure out
that the system works flour and how can
we improve it
so let me start first by focusing on a
specific type of question answering
evaluation the so called tech evaluation
so tech is the text readable evaluation
conference it has been going on for more
than 20 years now it includes many
different competitions every year some
of them involves documented rivo others
involve blog retrieve or spoken document
whatever so on
starting in 99 there was a new
evaluation called Q&A which spearheaded
a lot of the research in question
answering systems for the next 10 to 15
years so tech is run by NIST which is
the national state for Standards and
Technology United States and a very nice
description of the system is available
in the papers by Alan Walker's and Dawn
ties from 99 and 2000 the variation was
specifically designated to deal with
factual question answering using a
specific corpus so not using the web so
the corpus was of news about 2 gigabytes
worth of it that corpus was known as the
quaint corpus eventually and for the
evaluation the first year there were 200
fact-based questions the next year there
was 693 so the work for this evaluation
and essentially involved fact extraction
and it dealt with questions of this kind
that had an ambiguous answers for
example or who was Lincoln Secretary of
State or what does the payroll company
manufacture so the assumptions were the
following that the questions are based
on text so the corpus was created by
human analysts who actually read those
documents and found sentences that
contain answers to the questions so the
sisters were told in advance that the
answers were guaranteed to be inside the
corpus so the system was supposed to
return short passages not necessarily
the exact answer but very short passages
in one of the tasks 15 consecutive bytes
and the other task they had to return
250 consecutive bytes after a few years
starting in 2002 there was only one
single passage of 50 bytes that were
supposed to be returned but it had to be
annotated with a confidence score which
was used in computing a confidence based
evaluation of the system or it was also
possible that the system could return
yes and new for a specific question if
it was sure that there was no answer to
the question in the corpus in all those
evaluations there was no inference
required although some of the system's a
small set of the systems used some sort
of inference so let's look at text to in
1999 first here's some more questions
from that corpus I'm just going to go
through that real quick here what date
in 1989 East Germany opened the Berlin
Wall again there's a single unambiguous
answer November 9th
who was Johnny Mathis his high school
track coach this is a famous question
that has shown up in many papers on this
topic
somebody called new Vasquez what is the
shape of a purposes tooth spade-shaped
and so on so as you can see they're
different WH type of questions who what
where when why and so on and the answers
are very short passages that don't
change over time so you can look at some
of those other questions on your own so
now some of the test questions again
just for your information who is the
author of the book the Iron Lady
Barak Rafi of Margaret Thatcher what was
the monetary value of the Nobel Peace
Prize in 1989 and so on by the way this
entire corpus is available from the
track website at NIST gov if you're
interested in doing research and
evaluating your system against that
corpus you can download it from there ok
so I introduced the corpus in the
general task description let's now focus
on the evaluation metric that was used
so the most important metric used here
was something called M RR
which stands for mean reciprocal rank of
the correct answer among a ranked list
of answers so here's the formula for m
RR you take the rank of the correct
answer
you take the reciprocal of that rank so
one point four first place as half a
point for second place and so on and you
average this over all the questions in
the corpus so this metric was first
introduced by Trek in 99 and has been
very popular in the QA community for
those years so here's an example suppose
the question is what is the capital of
Canada and you have a system that
returns the following five answers in
the ranked order first answer Toronto
second answer Ottawa third answer Albany
fourth Philadelphia and fist Auto again
so in M RR you're only looking at the
highest ranked correct answer so in this
case it would be the second answer at
this point you would get a score of 1
over 2 which is 0.5 points you don't get
any additional credit for getting Ottawa
a second time in fifth place there's a
different version of M are called TR are
Toto reciprocal rank which gives you
extra credit for additional correct
answers in this case it's a little
trivial because the answer is the same
but there are questions that have
multiple correct answers in which case
it makes more sense to get credit for
all the correct answers so in this case
being Ottawa being in both second and
fifth place the system would get a TR
score of one half plus one fifth equals
zero point seven points in this case the
maximum is larger than one obviously so
in later years the confidence-weighted
score was prevalent in that case you
were getting more points if you got a
correct answer and you were also certain
of it
you wouldn't get that many points if you
got the right answer and you weren't
certain and you could lose potential a
lot of points if you gave a high
confidence to the wrong answer so let's
look at some of the performances I
wanted to show you the best systems that
were participating in that evaluation
over the first few years
so in 99 the best systems were by
Symphony from Buffalo SMU AT&T IBM
Europe University of Maryland 2000 was
again SMU is a diversity of Waterloo IBM
City College
I'm sorry Queens College 2001 inside
soft from Russia LCC the group that was
spun off from SMU
or Cohen I Sai 2002 again same ones into
the new and us which is the National
University of Singapore and so on so
those were the first few systems that
participated in each of those years and
and every year there were more than 30
participating systems so what are the
types of questions were possible in
ladder evaluations on the track the
following will introduce definitional
questions for example what is a boll
weevil these questions for example which
states signed the US Declaration of
Independence and also caused lingual
questions for example the questions
could be in Spanish and the documents
could be in English and finally series
questions where you have one initial
question and then depending on the
answer to that question you get a
different follow-up questions and you
can if you get one of them wrong you're
essentially unlikely to get the rest of
them correct because you're essentially
going off on a tangent so here's some
examples of serious questions the first
question in the first series is what
type Priam's made of well do you have to
answer this question and then the next
question is who discovered primes
so again it's a question in the same
thread what researchers have worked with
prions and so on the next category is
who is the lead singer musician in
Nirvana and then who are the band member
so at this point the question doesn't
even mention Nirvana anymore you have to
figure out that this is part of the same
threat when was the band form what is
their biggest hit what are their albums
what style of music do they play a third
series what industry is home and has in
where is the company located what is
their annual revenue how many employees
does it have and so on and finally what
kind of insect is the boll weevil what
type
planters damage what states have had
politic boll weevils and so on so now
let's move on to the next topic who are
in within question answering specific
what is the typical architecture of a
system that answers questions so one
observation that I would like to start
with is that many questions can be
answered by traditional search engines
so for example I can go to Yahoo search
engine and ask a question such as what
is the capital of Nicaragua even though
the Yahoo search engine is not
officially a question answering engine
it can understand this question and it
will give me the answer which is that
the capital of Nicaragua is Managua as
one of the answers even if a search
engine cannot necessarily retrieve the
answer to a question it's still possible
that it took and returned a document it
contains the answer or maybe a snippet
of a document that contains the answers
as you can see each of the hits in
modern search engines is associated with
a short snippet that in often in many
cases contains the answer to the
question directly so let's see what
other approaches there are to question
answering in what components are
involved in in the system building
here's the question what is the largest
city in northern Afghanistan so how
would you answer a question like this
well first of all you could probably
look at the map figure out what where is
Afghanistan figure out which cities are
in the northern part of the country and
then go perhaps for a table with their
populations and figure out the
populations of all the cities in
northern Afghanistan and then figure out
which one of those is the largest by
populations or we can go to a search
engine and just type this directly as a
question what is the large city in
northern Afghanistan in this case let me
show an example I sent this query to a
search engine and I was able to get the
top seven documents and the snippets
that the system picked as a
representative of those documents given
the query on the top of the page so you
can see very easily that this set of
snippets contains a lot of answers some
of them cracked some of them incorrect
and certainly it contains a lot of city
names so here's one Kabu which is the
capital of Ghana ston which is not the
right answer to this question by the way
here's some more Panama City which is
not even in Afghanistan camo which is
also not in Afghanistan somewhere in
Nigeria one more instance of Cobo and
one of good Hermes which is a city in
Russia so all those are incorrect
answers even though they are cities and
then for the first time in the fifth
passage we have mazar-e-sharif which is
the correct answer and it also appears
albeit with a different spelling in the
seventh passage okay so the question
here is once we have run our query to
the search engine and heal those
passages can we come up with a learning
algorithm that would classify the
candidate answers into good ones and bad
ones or at the very least hang them
based on how likely they are to answer
the question that was asked
so here the components that the typical
system includes in addition to the IR
component so for the first step is a
source identification so what database
should you be looking at should you be
using a general web corpus or perhaps
something more specific if a question
comes about movies and actors maybe it's
better to just go and send this question
something like IMDB or Wikipedia rather
than the entire web it depends also on
whether the answer is likely to be
contained in a textual source or in a
semi-structured or perhaps a structured
source for example database so questions
about for example the population of a
certain city or the unemployment rate in
a certain country in a certain year our
polling better obtained from some sort
of semi structured or structured data
set whereas more general questions are
probably better answered by plain text
unstructured data or text sources so
CUDA modulation is a very important step
I want to describe it in more detail in
the next few slides here's the basic
idea we want to convert the natural
language question into a cookie for that
search engine because most changes I
should not good at answering natural
language questions for example they can
easily get confused by the fact that
there are WH words such as who
they may also automatically drop some
important stop words such as oven the
whereas they can actually be very
important for the answer 'was I've asked
a question such as who said to be or not
to be the string to be or not to be
consists entirely of stop words so a
search engine is very likely to drop
them all before answering the query in
which case we're not going to get any
correct answers at all
so we modulation is also concerned with
the correct syntax for the specific
search engine so for example if a search
engine allows you to include alternative
ways to ask the same words for example
using vertical bars you can convert the
question who holds Hamlet into either
author or wrote followed by Hamlet so in
this case we can figure out that if a
person wrote a certain book that person
is the author of the book and therefore
we're going to be looking for documents
that contain the name of the book but
also contain one of the multiple ways at
least one of the multiple ways in which
one can describe the author of a book so
document retrieval is just finding the
documents that match the queries
sentence ranking means that once you
have identified the documents that
contain the answers you want to find
which passages possibly sentences or
paragraphs are most likely to contain
the answer so this is usually done by
some sort of n grab overlap or some
formula such as no copy formula which
we're going to discuss in the
information retrieval section the next
thing is once you have identified the
right passages or sentences you want to
identify the answers to those to the
original question somewhere through the
sentences in those passages answer
extraction involves a process called
question type classification so if the
question is about a person you want to
identify the names of persons in the
possible answer sentences it also
involves some called phase chunking so
for example if you have let's say
something about New York then you don't
want to separate the word new from the
word York you want to keep them together
as part of the answer and finally we
have answer ranking so in answer ANCA
you have a bunch of candidate answers
that satisfy the criteria so far there
are of the correct type they appear in
sentences in documents that are relevant
to the query and so on and now you won't
figure out in what order to present them
to the user to score the most points so
in the example before you don't want
Kabu and cano and good their mess to
appear in the top of the list you want
mazar-e-sharif to be there so some of
the features that i used to ask to crank
the answers include the question type
the proximity to the query words and
also very importantly the frequency so
if you get let's say 20 passages
returned by the search engine as
relevant to the query and six of them
contained the exact same answer
independently well chances are that this
is a very likely correct answer as
opposed to something that appears just
once so let's now go through this entire
pipeline with an example before so the
question is what is the largest city in
northern Afghanistan we go through first
query modulation we converted this into
largest or biggest we keep the word city
we drop to stop words for example in
ears and uh and we add quotation marks
around northern Afghanistan to indicate
that this is a phrase we don't want
cities that are in the northern part of
southern Afghanistan or the northern
neighbor of Afghanistan we want the
actual phrase northern Afghanistan to
appear ok now we send this modulated
query to a search engine and we perform
document retrieval and we get a bunch of
URLs then we rank the sentences in those
documents and we get the ones that are
most likely to contain the correct
answer first then we perform answer
extraction we identify the candidate
noun phrases in this case which are most
likely to contain the answer and finally
we perform answer acting using machine
learning we identify that mazar-e-sharif
is actually the better candidate and
live good or messy in second place again
this is just an ideal representation of
the pipeline
look at some of those stages in a little
bit more detail the first one is
question type classification so question
type classification we want to identify
the type of name the entity that will
match the question that was asked so for
example if a question is about the
author of a book we're going to be
looking for answers that are people or
authors or writers or so we're not going
to be looking for names of organizations
or names of football teams and so on so
here's an example who won't Anna
Karenina we're looking for a person or
an individual or writer and not for any
of the other categories let's look now
at two different economies of question
types the first one is the so-called
sync classes from IBM's answer selection
system or answer it includes about 20
categories which are categorized as q8
tokens or question-answering tokens the
first one is something like place it
answers the question where and an
example of this category is in the Rocky
Mountains the next is country so country
can be the answer to a question where or
a more specific question such as what
country and in that case an answer could
be United Kingdom you can see that the
mapping here is actually ambiguous so
where questions in the input can be
mapped to either places or countries or
states and perhaps some other categories
who questions can be mapped to persons
roles organisations and so on so even
though you can look at the question word
you still don't know exactly which
category of question you're looking for
so you have to allow for multiple
possible categories to be included in
the answer selection process so let me
show you one more taxonomy real quickly
this is the University of Illinois at
urbana-champaign question type taxonomy
so it includes quite a few more question
types than the IBM system the first
major categories entities and that
includes things like animals body organs
colors and so on then there is another
category of abbreviations
than descriptions then different types
of humans are locations and finally
different numeric expressions for
example dates and distances and money
and Hanks and so on
so some examples from the University of
Illinois corpus when did Coco painting
in architecture flourish well this
category is new numerical and then
subcategory date would country's
national passenger rail system is called
via well this is automatically
classified as a location country who
invaded make up well this is again a
human specific and individual and so on
so you can look at some of the other
examples here and for more details about
the way that the classification is
actually done you can look at the UIUC
papers on questioned classification I
specifically recommend the ones that are
listed on this page here Lee Ann Roth
and one more by Lee Roth and then Oh
both of those refer to specific data set
that includes both a training set and a
test set of a few thousand different
questions with their labels or manually
selected and this corpus has been used
in a lot of other papers for comparative
evaluations so we're going to stop here
and continue in the next segment with
some techniques for questioned
classification